# Homework 6: Reflecton

- Due on Saturday, May 25 at 11:59pm
- Weight: 8% of total grade

<br>

**Write**: Reflect on your previous work and how you would adjust to include ethics and inequity components. Total length should be a few paragraphs, no more than one page.

Previously I worked as Business Intelligence analyst in a Hungarian startup. The company was offering sales outsourcing to the industrial software vendors, e.g. Schneider Electric, AVEVA, Nemetschek etc. My work required researching competitors, potential clients and target accounts. By and large it was a fascinating learning experience, researching industrial sites and companies, maintaining our databases (spreadsheets and CRMs: HubSpot and SalesForce). However, even though we were operating entirely in the legal framework (propriatory research engines and best practices was the priority of our management), at times the research felt like spying on the "buyer personas". Granted that as a B2B company intrinsically we were interested in the business information/contacts, and would not benefit from obtaining personal data. At times, however, the propriatory research engines we used (ZoomInfo, LinkedIn Sales Navigator) returned personal information/contact. Apparently even the best databases will contain inappropriate or sensitive data. It is the task of the management to make sure the employees who have access to such information know their responsibilities and accountability in case of violation. Apparently, a fair salary to the employees is another means to preclude potential violations.

Currently I am working as a Ukrainian-English interpreter for various institutions. Before any conversation or accessing the client's account/database provider verifies the caller's identity. To my mind, this poses a huge security risk as sometimes such questions are as simple as asking name and DoB. Afterwards, the caller gets access to the account a person in question. If I noticed violation of such sort (which has not been the case yet), I could well report them to my management, but I doubt our company would have influence on its customers. My current employer does invest into education in terms of cybersecurity and ethical aspects of data confidentiality, but the role of an interpreter does not include reporting on such instances.  

Both examples above make me think that the weakest security point is the human element. Surely, the databases must be secured with encryption, authentication and backups. However, even the best system will contain errors, inappropriate, sensitive information and will be prone to breaches. What is more important is the intent of its administrators and users. The DB admins must know their responsibilities and accountability. Without it, any security measures will prove ineffective. 
